Parallelism

Process based multitasking
ability of running several programs at the same time (email and web browsing kind of)

Thread based multitasking
single program can perform more than one action (updating font and saving the current version)
sharing the same address space


Threads

A class should either extend Thread class or implement Runnable interface and write the execution code in run() method

When Runnable is implemented the thread class should be instantiated

When thread class is extended the object can be instantiated itself


!!!Thread is executed by start() method NOT RUN()!!



If we create thread by extending Thread class it has some additional built in methods


Thread lifecycle

1. Creation: the process remains in this state until the program starts the thread (new thread stage)
2. Runnable: when start() is called but the thread scheduler has not picked this thread to be executed
3. Running: scheduler picks the thread to be executed
4. Idle: thread when entered the time of waiting for the state for a specific interval of time. That time, the thread is not in Execution state but still alive.
5. Dead/Terminated: thread completes its execution




Thread states:

1. New
	*start() has not been called yet
	*thread exists only as an object

2. Runnable
	*after calling start()
	*java inside decided when CPU executes it

3. Blocked
	*happens with synchronized
	*thread is waiting to enter a synchronized block/method because another thread already has the lock

4. Waiting
	*wait(), join() methods
	*no time limit just needs another thread to finish first

5. Timed_Waiting
	*sleep(time), wait(time), join(time)
	*thread waits for a specific amount of time

6. Terminated
	*thread has finished execution
	*run() method completed
	*thread can not restart



Shared resources

Race condition: 2 things trying to access the same thing

static variables need static synchronization no prevent race condition


Concurrency-multiple tasks make progress during the same time period (not necessarily at the same time) may use one CPU core
Parallelism- multiple tasks run at the exact same time, needs multiple CPU cores


Volatile keyword- changes made by one thread are immediately visible to other threads

wait() - makes a thread to release the lock, enter waiting state, wait until another thread wakes it up

notify() - wakes up one waiting thread

notifyAll() - wakes up all waiting threads

!!!!wait,notify,notifyall must be used inside a synchronized block




Liveliness- a concurrent application's ability to execute in a timely manner (canliliq)


Deadlock- everything is locked nothing can work the process is stopped 
Livelock- even if it is locked the process is going
Starvation- one thread is starving the other ones, not letting them to start





























































