Polymorphism


Assigning a parent class type reference, the subclass object allows to use the power of polymorphism: a single class can have different behavior or forms (poly + morph) depending on the implementation

The declaration, initialization and method call syntax is checked during the compilation of the Java classes.

In Java, the access modifier of the overriding method in the subclass cannot be more restrictive than the overridden method of the superclass

The distinction between hiding a static method and overriding an instance method has important implications:
▪ The version of the overridden instance method that gets invoked is the one in the subclass.
▪ The version of the hidden static method that gets invoked depends on whether it is invoked from the superclass or the subclass

Final objects and arrays (which are objects as well) can change their values through the methods and indices correspondingly but cannot have a new reference assigned to themselves

The final variable can be initialized in the declaration line or can be initialized in 1. instance initializer 2. constructor

Using final keyword in method declaration prevents its overriding

Declaring a class as final means the class cannot be extended by any other class

Object clone() => Creates a copy of the object
Class getClass() => Gets the class of an object at runtime
int hashCode() => Return the hash code associated with the object


In Java, the primitive types are passed to the methods as values (a copy of their values) – the changes made to the primitive type parameter in the method does not change its value. This is called call-by-value.
The objects are passed as a reference – all changes made to the objects change the original object. This is called call-by-reference.



ABSTRACT

These unimplemented methods are called abstract and have the following syntax:
	abstract returnType methodName(parameters);
As seen from the syntax, there is no curly braces that define the body of the method. The method declaration ends with the semicolon



An abstract class can contain:
Abstract methods (methods without a body)
Non-abstract methods (normal methods with a body)
Variables, constructors, static methods, etc.

If a method in parent class is abstract then every subclass must implement it (write body accordingly)
If a subclass does not implement the abstract method then the subclass itself should be abstract


You cannot have an abstract method inside a non-abstract class in Java. ❌
If a class contains at least one abstract method, the class itself must be declared abstract.




INTERFACES

The default access modifier for interface methods is public
A class can implement more than one interface (recall multiple inheritance)
Generally speaking, interfaces tell you what to do but NOT how to do it.
Interfaces can have public or no access modifier. If no access modifier is given, then the interface is accessible only to classes defined in the same package as the interface.
If a class does not fully implement the methods required by the interface, then that class must be declared as abstract
An interface can extend another interface
Variables defined in interfaces are implicitly made as final and static.
Variables need to have an initial value (int x; ❌              int x=5; 👍)
Interface method can have an implementation by having a default keyword
Interfaces can have static methods



ENUMERATIONS 
An enumeration is a list of named constants that define a new data type and its values.
Enums are implicitly final, which means you cannot extend or implement them
The enumerations are usually used to define types that can take discrete and strict values
When used in a switch statement, there is no need to provide the Enum type (i.e., no need to use Color.Red, Red is just right)



SEALED CLASS
final → nobody can extend the class
sealed → only selected classes can extend the class


A sealed class is a class which allows only a specific subclasses to directly extend it.
Note that indirectly sealed classes can be extended.
Sealed classes should be defined in the same package or named module as their direct subclasses.
The permits clause is optional if the sealed class and its direct subclasses are declared within the same file, or the subclasses are nested within the sealed class.

Sealed class keywords:
◦ sealed - Indicates that a class or interface may only be extended/implemented by named classes or interfaces
◦ permits - Used with the sealed keyword to list the classes and interfaces allowed
◦ non-sealed - Applied to a class or interface that extends a sealed class, indicating that it can be extended by unspecified classes


Sealed classes can be extended by only one of the followings:
◦ A Final class
◦ Another sealed class
◦ A non-sealed class


































































